---
layout: post
title:  "Usbmux"
date:   2022-04-21 12:40:41 +0800
categories: ios
tags: ios
---



 
[usbmux intro ref](https://www.theiphonewiki.com/wiki/Usbmux)

<blockquote>
<br/>
This is a system for multiplexing several "connections" over one USB pipe. 

Conceptually, it provides a TCP-like system-processes on the host machine open up connections to specific, numbered ports on the mobile device.

Communications between the host (generally, iTunes running on a Mac or Windows machine) and the device (an iPhone, iPad or iPod touch) take place using a complicated scheme of nested layers. From lowest level to highest, they are:
USB protocol: multiplexes multiple data streams over one pair of bulk endpoints <br/>

usbmuxd protocol: provides a way of opening connections to TCP ports on the device<br/> 

lockdownd protocol: tbd <br/>

iTunesHelper? <br/>

AFC?<br/>
<br/>
</blockquote>

this description is from https://www.theiphonewiki.com/wiki/Usbmux. But on my side, usbmuxd communicate with ios device like tcp, so I think we should put it at TCP layer. 
I think the layer from lowerest to highest may be like this:
  
  usbmuxd protocol: provides a way of opening connections to TCP ports on the device 
 
  lockdownd protocol: tbd 
 
  iTunesHelper? 
 
  AFC?
 
  USB protocol: multiplexes multiple data streams over one pair of bulk endpoints 

If you have any idea about this layer, you can contact with me or leave your comments.

## usbmuxd location:
code is from tidevice 

```
import os
if os.name == "posix":  # linux or darwin
    address = "/var/run/usbmuxd"
elif os.name == "nt":  # windows
    address = ('127.0.0.1', 27015)
```



on Mac:
<blockquote>
/System/Library/PrivateFrameworks/MobileDevice.framework/Resources/usbmuxd, a daemon that is started by launchd (see /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.usbmuxd.plist Catalina: /Library/Apple/System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.usbmuxd.plist)
<br/>

</blockquote>

on windows:
install iTunes, and this usbmuxd is already installed.
